REMINDER ABOUT WHY THE PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE IS SO
PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE IS SO INGRAINED IN OUR AMERICAN
INGRAINED IN OUR AMERICAN CONSCIENCENESS.
CONSCIENCENESS. MR. PRESIDENT, I LISTENED
MR. PRESIDENT, I LISTENED CAREFULLY TO CHRISTINE BLASEY
CAREFULLY TO CHRISTINE BLASEY FORD’S TESTIMONY BEFORE THE
FORD’S TESTIMONY BEFORE THE JUDICIARY COMMITTEE.
JUDICIARY COMMITTEE. I FOUND HER TESTIMONY TO BE
I FOUND HER TESTIMONY TO BE SINCERE, PAINFUL, AND
SINCERE, PAINFUL, AND COMPELLING.
COMPELLING. I BELIEVE THAT SHE IS A SURVIVOR
I BELIEVE THAT SHE IS A SURVIVOR OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT AND THAT
OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT AND THAT THIS TRAUMA HAS UPENDED HER
THIS TRAUMA HAS UPENDED HER LIFE.
LIFE. NEVERTHELESS, THE FOUR WITNESSES
NEVERTHELESS, THE FOUR WITNESSES SHE NAMED COULD NOT CORROBORATE
SHE NAMED COULD NOT CORROBORATE ANY OF THE EVENTS OF THAT
ANY OF THE EVENTS OF THAT EVENING GATHERING WHERE SHE SAYS
EVENING GATHERING WHERE SHE SAYS THE ASSAULT OCCURRED.
THE ASSAULT OCCURRED. NONE OF THE INDIVIDUALS
NONE OF THE INDIVIDUALS PROFESSOR FORD SAYS WERE AT THE
PROFESSOR FORD SAYS WERE AT THE PARTY HAS ANY RECOLLECTION AT
PARTY HAS ANY RECOLLECTION AT ALL OF THAT NIGHT.
ALL OF THAT NIGHT. JUDGE KAVANAUGH FORCEFULLY
JUDGE KAVANAUGH FORCEFULLY DENIED THE ALLEGATIONS UNDER
DENIED THE ALLEGATIONS UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY.
PENALTY OF PERJURY. MARK JUDGE DENIED, UNDER PENALTY
MARK JUDGE DENIED, UNDER PENALTY OF FELONY, THAT HE HAD WITNESSED
OF FELONY, THAT HE HAD WITNESSED AN ASSAULT.
AN ASSAULT. PJSMYTH, ANOTHER PERSON
PJSMYTH, ANOTHER PERSON ALLEGEDLY AT THE PARTY, DENIED
ALLEGEDLY AT THE PARTY, DENIED THAT HE WAS THERE UNDER PENALTY
THAT HE WAS THERE UNDER PENALTY OF FELONY.
OF FELONY. PROFESSOR FORD’S LIFE-LONG
PROFESSOR FORD’S LIFE-LONG FRIEND, LELAND KEYSER, INDICATED
FRIEND, LELAND KEYSER, INDICATED THAT UNDER PENALTY OF FELONY,
THAT UNDER PENALTY OF FELONY, SHE DOES NOT REMEMBER THAT
SHE DOES NOT REMEMBER THAT PARTY.
PARTY. AND MS. KEYSER WENT FURTHER, SHE
AND MS. KEYSER WENT FURTHER, SHE INDICATED THAT NOT ONLY DOES SHE
INDICATED THAT NOT ONLY DOES SHE NOT REMEMBER A NIGHT LIKE THAT,
NOT REMEMBER A NIGHT LIKE THAT, BUT ALSO THAT SHE DOES NOT EVEN
BUT ALSO THAT SHE DOES NOT EVEN KNOW BRETT KAVANAUGH.
KNOW BRETT KAVANAUGH. IN ADDITION TO THE LACK OF COB
IN ADDITION TO THE LACK OF COB BRATE -- CORROBORATING EVIDENCE,
BRATE -- CORROBORATING EVIDENCE, WE ALSO ASKED SOME FACTS THAT
WE ALSO ASKED SOME FACTS THAT RAISED MORE QUESTIONS.
RAISED MORE QUESTIONS. FOR INSTANCE, SINCE THESE
FOR INSTANCE, SINCE THESE ALLEGATIONS BECAME PUBLIC,
ALLEGATIONS BECAME PUBLIC, PROFESSOR FORD TESTIFIED THAT
PROFESSOR FORD TESTIFIED THAT NOT A SINGLE PERSON HAS
NOT A SINGLE PERSON HAS CONTACTED HER TO SAY I WAS AT
CONTACTED HER TO SAY I WAS AT THE PARTY THAT NIGHT.
THE PARTY THAT NIGHT. FURTHERMORE, THE PROFESSOR
FURTHERMORE, THE PROFESSOR TESTIFIED THAT ALTHOUGH SHE DOES
TESTIFIED THAT ALTHOUGH SHE DOES NOT REMEMBER HOW SHE GOT HOME
NOT REMEMBER HOW SHE GOT HOME THAT EVENING, SHE KNEW THAT
THAT EVENING, SHE KNEW THAT BECAUSE OF THE DISTANCE, SHE
BECAUSE OF THE DISTANCE, SHE WOULD HAVE NEEDED A RIDE.
WOULD HAVE NEEDED A RIDE. YET NOT A SINGLE PERSON HAS COME
YET NOT A SINGLE PERSON HAS COME FORWARD TO SAY THAT THEY WERE
FORWARD TO SAY THAT THEY WERE THE ONE WHO DROVE HER HOME OR
THE ONE WHO DROVE HER HOME OR WERE IN THE CAR WITH HER THAT
WERE IN THE CAR WITH HER THAT NIGHT.
NIGHT. AND PROFESSOR FORD ALSO
AND PROFESSOR FORD ALSO INDICATED THAT EVEN THOUGH SHE
INDICATED THAT EVEN THOUGH SHE LEFT THAT SMALL GATHERING OF SIX
LEFT THAT SMALL GATHERING OF SIX OR SO PEOPLE ABRUPTLY, AND
OR SO PEOPLE ABRUPTLY, AND WITHOUT SAYING GOOD-BYE, AND
WITHOUT SAYING GOOD-BYE, AND DISTRAUGHT, NONE OF THEM CALLED
DISTRAUGHT, NONE OF THEM CALLED HER THE NEXT DAY OR EVER TO ASK
HER THE NEXT DAY OR EVER TO ASK WHY SHE LEFT, IS SHE OKAY.
WHY SHE LEFT, IS SHE OKAY. NOT EVEN HER CLOSEST FRIEND MS.
NOT EVEN HER CLOSEST FRIEND MS. KEYSER.
KEYSER. MR. PRESIDENT, THE CONSTITUTION
MR. PRESIDENT, THE CONSTITUTION DOES NOT PROVIDE GUIDANCE ON HOW
DOES NOT PROVIDE GUIDANCE ON HOW WE ARE SUPPOSED TO EVALUATE
WE ARE SUPPOSED TO EVALUATE THESE COMPETING CLAIMS.
THESE COMPETING CLAIMS. IT LEAVES THAT DECISION UP TO
IT LEAVES THAT DECISION UP TO EACH SENATOR.
EACH SENATOR. THIS IS NOT A CRIMINAL TRIAL AND
THIS IS NOT A CRIMINAL TRIAL AND I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THE CLAIMS
I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THE CLAIMS SUCH AS THESE NEED TO BE PROVED
SUCH AS THESE NEED TO BE PROVED BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT.
BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT. NEVERTHELESS, FAIRNESS WOULD
NEVERTHELESS, FAIRNESS WOULD DICTATE THAT THES CLAIMS-- CLAIM
DICTATE THAT THES CLAIMS-- CLAIM LEAST SHOULD MEET A THRESHOLD OF
LEAST SHOULD MEET A THRESHOLD OF MORE LIKELY THAN NOT, AS OUR
MORE LIKELY THAN NOT, AS OUR STANDARD.
STANDARD. THE FACTS PRESENTED DO NOT MEAN
THE FACTS PRESENTED DO NOT MEAN THAT PROFESSOR FORD WAS NOT
THAT PROFESSOR FORD WAS NOT SEXUALLY ASSAULTED THAT NIGHT,
SEXUALLY ASSAULTED THAT NIGHT, OR AT SOME OTHER TIME, BUT THEY
OR AT SOME OTHER TIME, BUT THEY DO LEAD ME TO CONCLUDE THAT THE
DO LEAD ME TO CONCLUDE THAT THE ALLEGATIONS FAILED TO MEET THE
ALLEGATIONS FAILED TO MEET THE MORE LIKELY THAN NOT STANDARD.
MORE LIKELY THAN NOT STANDARD. THEREFORE, I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT